Most people have a passing
familiarity with ESlint and
have dealt with it or have it, whatever.
In this case,
we're dealing with large code bases,
you probably already have it installed.
What I wanna do is just kind of like plant
a little bit of a flag on two things,
which is one, what would it look
like to create your own ESLint rule?
And it's gonna be a very high level of
what are some of the things you could do
if you chose to.
And then we'll do one more little thing
where we'll look at, failing builds
are great except that they're not, and so
can you catch this stuff on pre-commit?
And then that's kind of how we'll pull
this into the station with two more little
areas of exploration that I think
are gonna be wildly helpful for you, but
kind of things that are kind
of deeper dives later on.
And so ESLint, for
those of you don't know how it works,
it breaks your code into
an abstract syntax tree,
kind of what we saw
with the code coverage.
Breaks into a giant tree kind of
a DOM that you can traverse up and
down and look at things and
labels on that's a function expression,
that's an argument, that's a the variable
declaration, so on and so forth.
And a great way to get a sense of this
is you can go to astexplorer.net, and
you can say, last time I was doing this,
let's jack up the font a little bit.
Where I wrote some code, and
it will show you the tree that is built
from that, so you have a program.
In this case I have three
expression statements,
we get more fun highlighting
as I hover over stuff.
Because again, if you look, this is how
even the code coverage stuff works.
It's expression statement we're
calling something, that makes sense.
It's got a callee, it has an argument,
I hid location data.
You can see its keeping track of where
the start was cuz it looks there are new
lines, it's just a string of text
with new line characters, right?
As it's parsing through and making sense
of stuff, it can see all that stuff.
I don't necessarily care, I care about
the meaning of my program, right,
we can minify stuff,
it's how all this stuff works.
What is super powerful here,
I realized that it has
local storage, so
some of the surprise is ruined.
But if I wanted to change this console
error, it'll cross my code base,
auto fix ' to a log error.
I can literally write my own ESLint rules and
either yell at you, not preferred,
or kinda go through and
get a sense of the structure
of your code and can auto-fix.
So let's say, and this is a little naive,
there's import statements you'd
have to deal with, right, and
stuff like that, but the concept is there.
Which is, I want to change console errors,
I want to fetch the request from API.
I will actually do that once,
you can watch me live code instead
of me pointing at a bunch of stuff.
So let's start this over a little bit.
But one of the great things is you can
take whatever the questionable code is.
So in this case,
we wanna change fetch to request from API.
So, cool, if I hover over that,
you can see me move around, and
I'm different things like string literal.
So looks like this is an identifier,
right,
with the name fetch, great.
So let's go ahead and let's just delete
this, and we can say identifier.
Cuz as it goes to the triggers just
you setting up a bunch of rules for
what you want to happen, right?
In this case, the ESLint rule was not
fired because nothing triggered it,
that makes total sense.
What am I choose to do here
the actual node is passive,
not Node.js, node as in node tree,
DOM node, that kind of node.
Where I have it,
I can ask things about it,
so I could say literally I know
some things about it, right?
I can see that it's got some
arguments in TypeScript,
you can do string, you can do
a certain amount of template literals.
But you could theoretically be like,
hey that's, so you can do also, you can
basically do anything you want with static
analysis to your code using this, right?
So, once you have the test, once you know
the plan of action of what your particular
code base needs,
you can say all right, go there.
If I find an identifier,
which is basically a function name or
something like that,
you can do something if node.name,
this is fetch in this case, right?
Then we can start by just saying,
we'll take this context here.
We'll say context.report.
And in this case, we'll say,
The message is,
Whatever, right, making it up.
And so we can do that,
cool in pass in the node.
What is my issue here?
Put a comma in there.
>> Misspelt identifier on line nine.
>> That will be my issue.
This is why, to Mark's question
of why I like TypeScript
is because you are my TypeScript right
now in this editor and I clearly.
If it looks I can code,
you take TypeScript away from me,
and it's unclear if I can.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So cool,
you can say at this point
it is just yelling at us.
It's like, hey, prefer requestFromApi,
yeah, over fetch,
and it's kinda cool that it will
yell at you with the line and
the character that that shows up on,
right?
And so you could theoretically,
now you don't have to be
pedantic during code reviews.
You can set up the rules in this case,
right?
You can just pull it in as ESLint rule,
you don't have to build infrastructure for
this.
If you have npm run lint or whatever, and
you have the GitHub action we
talked about earlier, right?
You basically just inherit this rule and
it will now break the build
if they use fetch.
>> Wait, how does this get
into your checks in your code?
>> Yeah, so if you have ESLint installed
you can just add it as an extra rule.
>> Add what?
What do you take?
>> Effectively this code down
here that we're writing, right,
this is how a rule is structured, right?
Then you get in your .eslintrc, you can also
pull in additional home written rules.
So now this will yell at you,
I think you can do, yeah,
here you can see in the metadata,
I can do problem or
suggestion or something like that.
And it depends on what one will break the
build, one, GitHub has annotations now,
one will just automatically, yay, you
should consider doing this other thing,
right and be a lint warning and-
>> Is there a way where
it'll just do it for you?
>> I love that segue, is there a way
where you can have it auto fix it for me?
So you see that one of the metadata
that I do have set is whether or
not this is fixable, which I ask
myself about myself all the time.
And there are some nuances to this, but
let's do the world's simplest case,
which is cool.
Let's say, all of our little weird helper
methods are effectively API compliant
with the very simplest use case here,
right?
And so cool,
report that we had a problem absolutely,
then what I would like you to do
is let's apply a fix in this case.
So we have one more method,
we have the message,
what node you put in your own location
data too, but this is good enough for us.
We'll say fix, right?
And then you have this, fix it,
sometimes APIs are weird.
So we've got this fixer, and
what it does is returns an array,
which is all the weird changes
you need to make to this thing.
And to be clear, fixer, yeah, I'm just I'm
glancing down at the methods right now.
It's insert text after,
insert text after a range,
insert text before,
remove from the code completely, so
you could have it just remove
the console logs if you want it, right?
And you can go up and down the tree,
you can look at its parent,
you can do all sorts of stuff.
You can replace some of the text,
that seems useful if we wanna just replace
all fetches with requests from API, right?
You can do all sorts of things,
you can replace a text range.
You can do all sorts of interesting stuff,
remove it completely, break the build.
Let's do this array, it's just all
these changes you wanna apply,
so we'll do fixer.replaceText,
in this case.
On this particular node,
right, cuz you might go up and
down the DOM tree and
find other stuff as well.
If you've ever used jQuery,
you secretly know how to do this
better than it looks to you right now.
And let's say we'll replace
that with requests from API
>> Is this Node the top left window?
>> Which one?
>> Node,
is that referring to the top left?
>> Node, is what is currently
highlighted here, right?
So each kind of token,
I'm just taking one word,
do you understand with another one, right?
The parser goes through, and
it's analyzing your code, so
call expression is a node on the tree.
It has some a children
which are identifier and
then the arguments,
nodes on that tree further down.
Think about a DOM node and that tree,
that's effectively what is
turning your code into.
And so if you look at the output now,
is that it didn't even fire an issue,
it just auto replaced.
So now,
if you had texts of the word fetch in it,
that wouldn't get replaced,
it has to be a fetch
identifier which is a function call,
right?
And it will go and
only in those explicitly meaningful cases,
will it go and swap it out?
>> Do you think there's
a point though that it
gets-
>> Yes.
>> Too much in the sense that here you're
actually changing function because
a functional reason versus source order or
punctuation or whatever.
I just feel like here, you'd almost
want the engineers to really get used to
writing requests from API versus-
>> Yes.
>> It'll just fix it for me.
>> Yeah, to be clear,
this was the easiest example to write.
Would I have this set to auto-fix?
No.
>> Cool.
>> Right, absolutely not,
would I hypothetically want
to run this one once, right?
Look at the diff, eyeball it and
then maybe have it do a suggestion or
warning after that, probably right?
>> So-
>> Cuz if I get this wrong,
I have now taken somebody
else's well-meaning code and
shipped a bug to production, yeah.
>> If you wanted to, for example,
just replace console logs,
would you just fix it out,
replace text, console log, and
then just an empty string,
or how does that look?
>> If I just wanna say it again,
I was listening and thinking.
>> The one example you mentioned was,
you could use it to just
remove all console logs.
>> Yeah, there was remove.
I can remove the node completely.
Let's see, I don't know with the name,
I think it will take the entire thing out.
Let's find out together.
So I want to take all the fetches out,
I don't know, it's easy to do.
So remove,
I have to do a range on that one,
remove node or token I just got passed in.
Okay, yeah see I gotta get
a little more nuanced and
traverse the tree a little bit better
on this one because that's a problem,
but the nice part is the arguments
is the next one down there, right?
There was the literal,
you can see as highlighted on the upper.
I know you probably can't see.
For those, paying attention at home,
that is yellow.
[LAUGH] Y'all can't see and
everyone at home can see,
I can see that as I'm over here,
well, back when it worked.
Yeah, you can see all right,
you can see the yellow,
I guess I moved the mouse while I
was talking, then I couldn't see it.
But yeah, you can kinda see and
get a sense of it, so yeah.
Yes, what you can live code,
this kind of stuff is kind of squarely and
stuff along those lines.